Enchanted Washcloth
  A discussion forum.

  Languages: Ruby, Javascript
  Technologies: Ruby on Rails, Prototype

  The first (and only, alas) complex project I built in Rails, Enchanted
  Washcloth is a discussion forum system similar to systems such as phpBB and
  vBulletin. Built several years ago just as Rails 2.0 was entering beta, I
  intended to retain the basic structure established by most forum systems,
  while improving several key elements. Rather than requiring the user to click
  through a number of sub-forums to read all recent posts, I allowed the user
  to read all threads by viewing a single containing "root" forum.
  Additionally, I offered the then-novel technique of storing the per-user read
  state of each thread on the server rather than on the client, allowing the
  user to read a thread on one computer, with the thread then marked as such on
  any other computers accessed by the user.

  I began the projeect with the intent of replace the Invision forum used by a
  small gaming community I administered, but ultimately failed -- I focused
  unduly on "scratching my own itch" to the exclusion of less interesting
  features demanded by my userbase. Though the project did not meet my
  expectations, it allowed me to mature as a programmer. I realized that no
  matter how elegant my code was, the only factor that mattered was the end
  product's usability, for that was the only element with which my users could
  interact.

  Enchanted Washcloth was also the first project on which I practiced
  test-driven development. Following the test-driven craze that gripped the
  Rails community, I strived to achieve complete test coverage, covering
  several routine cases and every edge case I could imagine for each piece of
  the app's functionality. At one point, I had four-and-a-half lines of test
  code for every line of application code. Ultimately, I came to appreciate
  that test-drven development and automated tests in general offer great value
  for projects contributed to by multiple programmers over extended periods of
  time, but that the burden testing imposes may be too great for the
  single-developer, short-lived project that Enchanted Washcloth ultimately
  was. Though my tests were excellent, they were invisible to the user, and did
  not compensate for my project's other shortcomings.


RSS Downloader
  An RSS/Atom file downloader.

  Languages: Python

  RSS Downloader is an elementary command-line Python script that allows one to
  periodically retreive an RSS or Atom feed listing files, downloading any of
  interest.  Such functionality is primarily of use with a Bittorrent client
  such as [rTorrent](http://libtorrent.rakshasa.no/), which can be configured
  to automatically begin downloading any torrents which appear in a given
  directory. Via the command line, one specifies a pattern listing just what
  files should be fetched by RSS Downloader, which subsequently invokes Wget to
  perform the transfer.


CoreNetworks Status
  An account monitor for a server provider.

  Languages: Python

  Core Networks status is a simple Python script that interfaces with dedicated
  server provider [CoreNetworks](http://corenetworks.net) to retrieve one's
  bandwidth usage and time until bill due. The script uses Python's urllib2 to
  authenticate with Core Networks, store the resulting authentication cookie,
  and retrieve the several pages containing pertinent information.

